202 Group Project - Organizing Beer

Overview

Our group’s proposal is to organize beer. The number of breweries has skyrocketed over the past two decades with the rise and popularity of craft beer. This trend has created an immense assortment and variety of different types of beer. Even just going to a local beer garden leaves a person bewildered at the potential choice options. As a result, the organizational structure of beer needs improvement. Beer is predominantly categorized by type (i.e. Lager, Pale Ale, etc.), ABV (alcohol by volume),  location (domestic or import), and price. Our group’s plan is to use the BreweryDB API to source our data (a team effort) and split up responsibilities organizing beer based on the occasion (Ayo), food pairing (Sejal), and popularity within a region (Bo). 

Occasion

Our organizing system will aim to help the user select a beer by occasion. In our training dataset, we will manually tag each beer according to its most appropriate occasions (for example Pale Lager for Summer Beach Day). This would require another feature in our dataset that describes each beer by appropriate occasion. Appropriate occasions for different beers in the collection will be aggregated from multiple sources on the internet. Some of the sources we will leverage to describe our collection of beers by occasion are: Ireland Craft Beers, CraftBeer, and VersatileGent. Once our model is trained, the organizing system should enable users to retrieve beers from the collection by most appropriate occasion. 

Food pairing

The resources that will be used to determine the pairings include various food blog articles with information on what beers to pair which foods. Some of these, such as the Tasting Table, include general advice on the principles that guide good pairings (i.e. “contrasting flavors”, “pairing equally strong flavors”). Specific pairing examples are brought up to explain these principles. Other resources, like a guide produced by the Brewer's Association, provide a detailed chart of pairings with the following types of information: Beer name, alcohol content, flavor impact, color, and bitterness along with suggested specific foods, cheeses and desserts to pair them with. This chart also includes the glassware to serve the beer in and the serving temperature. The guide also includes a diagram of how aspects’ of flavors in beer (i.e. “Hop Bitterness”, “Roasted Malt”, “Carbonation”) either balance or emphasize various flavors in food (i.e. “sweetness”, “richness”, “acidity”). While this guide deals with 14 specific beers, other articles describe a smaller set of categories of beer. An article from Webstaurant Store, and Bottleneck Management provide additional descriptions of beer flavors and advice on food pairings that we’ll draw from.

Popularity within a region

We also plan to organize and tag each individual beer based on where the beer was brewed, such as city, state, country, and region. Ultimately our goal is to create a resource where a user can see a selection of beer based on the location of where the beer was brewed as well as the popularity of different types of beer within that selected region. We plan to conduct research to understand the origin and history of beer across a variety of regions and countries in order to determine the popularity of individual beers and types of beer. Wikipedia has a robust amount of information related to this topic that we plan to utilize. For instance, on the Wikipedia page "beer by region" it lists over 100 separate links for beer by country, such as beer in Sri Lanka and beer in Sweden. We will need to manually tag beer in our training dataset and then use machine-learning techniques to apply the appropriate tags to the remaining of the dataset.
